President Biden has urged Hamas to
accept a new Israeli proposal to free
hostages and bring about a lasting
ceasefire Mr Biden speaking from the
White House unveiled the three-part plan
which would begin with a six- week
ceasefire in which the Israeli Defense
Forces would withdraw from populated
areas of Gaza there would also be a
surge of humanitarian Aid as well as an
exchange of some hostages for
Palestinian Prisoners the president said
it was time for this war to end Hamas
issued a statement saying it was ready
to deal positively with any proposal
offering a permanent Ceasar and a
complete Israeli withdrawal well shortly
after President Biden spoke Democratic
and Republican leaders invited the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu to address a joint meeting of
Congress the date of the speech has not
yet been set our first report this hour
is from our correspondent victon
Maven after almost 8 months of Israeli
response to the 7th of October attacks
by Hamas Gaza lays largely in Ruins with
the lives of Palestinians who call it
home turned upside down more than 36,000
have been killed across the region
according to the Hamas run Health
Ministry hundreds of thousands are
displaced and Aid is struggling to reach
them the conflict has put the US Israel
relationship under immense pressure but
in a surprise move President Biden
unveiled a new peace proposal and
ceasefire offer from Israel I know there
are those in Israel who will not agree
with this plan and we'll call for the
war to continue
indefinitely some some are even in the
government
Coalition and they've made it clear they
want to occupy Gaza they want to keep
fighting for years and the hostages are
not a priority to them well I've urged
the leadership in Israel to stand behind
this deal to despite whatever pressure
comes President Biden outlined a
three-phase proposal that would begin
with an immediate 6 we ceasefire at the
same time Israeli forces would carry out
a withdrawal from Gaza Israeli hostages
in Gaza would be exchanged for
Palestinian prisoners and 600 trucks of
humanitarian Aid would be delivered
there each day in the second phase Hamas
and Israel would negotiate a permanent
end to
hostilities the final phase would
include a major reconstruction operation
in Gaza with international
support among those urging Hamas to get
on board was foreign secretary David
Cameron posting on social media let's
seize this moment and bring this
conflict to an
end for President Biden resolving the
conflict has become a political
imperative ahead of elections in 5
months time he's been losing the support
of some younger voters and Muslim voters
both have been vocal in their
dissatisfaction at events in
Gaza for Palestinians in Gaza if hamus
agrees to this deal it will be the start
of a long road to rebuild some semblance
of the lives they once had Vincent
mcavin BBC News well with me now is
Muhammad T from BBC Arabic to discuss
this further Muhammad we've had
proposals before what's in this one and
what's new it is an Israeli proposal it
does not uh include a permanent
ceasefire it does not include a full
withdrawal from the Israeli forces from
Gaza which are the main two demands of
Hamas so what is hamas's response to
this so far Hamas said we are responding
positively to this uh these proposals
they say that President Biden said that
he he mentioned permanences fire he
actually me
mentioned permanent cation of
hostilities they say that he mentioned
full withdrawal from Gaza he only
mentioned withdrawal from the Israeli
forces from the inhabitant areas uh how
much pressure will be on Hamas now to
accept this and what is the next stage
do you see of these proposals going
forward of course there is a huge H
pressure on both parties on the Israeli
parties uh party on on Hamas party to
accept the ceasefire this war went so
far with about 40,000 civilians died in
Gaza with a
dire humanitarian situation in Gaza no a
single fully function hospital no school
working and this and these civilians are
really want want their life to come back
again along with the families of the
hostages that are expecting to to get
the hostages back huge pressures from
both sides to what extent they they
would they would refuse this proposals
and continue the War I highly doubt that
and on the Israeli side Benjamin
Netanyahu President Biden mentioned it
even he's under pressure from within his
own government to carry on the operation
until what they see is the defeat of
Hamas indeed these proposals from Israel
would guarantee to to isra to to have
presence in Gaza in in the inhabitant
areas that this presence will allow them
to restart the war at any time hunt
Hamas members at any time
being responsible in in the security in
Gaza it is all about who will appear
winning this war Nikki so if Hamas would
accept uh that they go to these
proposals without a guarantee of a
permanent ceasefire permanent withdrawal
they might appear that they lost the war
and if the Israelis would accept any
proposal that that would include
permanent ceire full withdrawal they
will appear that they lost this war M
from BBC Arabic thank you for joining us
with the latest on that